`Toast` guidance update - `Web docs` (#2408)
hashicorp/design-system: website/docs/components/toast/partials/guidelines/guidelines.md

### When to use

- To communicate a background process that has either started or ended, e.g., “Creating cluster”.
- To allow a user to quickly revert a destructive action.

### When not to use

- To display contextual associative errors (e.g. form validation), or promotional content, consider [Alert](/components/alert).
- As a dialog to confirm an action, consider [Modal](/components/modal).

## Color

![The color argument changes the background and title color: neutral is grey, highlight is purple, success is green, warning is orange, critical is red.](/assets/components/toast/toast-colors.png)

Use color logically:

- **Neutral**: provide general information to the user about an ongoing process.

> - **Highlight**: used interchangeably with `neutral` when more prominence is needed. Use sparingly.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Highlight**: use interchangeably with `neutral` when more prominence is needed. Use sparingly.
```

- **Success**: indicate a successful action was completed.
- **Warning**: indicate a successful action was completed but may have triggered a related issue. Provide guidance and actions if possible.

> - **Critical**: indicate error or critical issues resulting from a failed action.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **Critical**: indicate an error or critical issues resulting from a failed action.
```

### Critical toasts

> Critical Toasts often persist (until dismissed) as they hold important information that requires the user's attention. More details in the section ["When to persist or timeout."](#when-to-persist-or-timeout)

Reviewer 3: [nit]
```suggestion
Critical Toasts often persist (until dismissed) as they hold important information that requires the user's attention. Read more about [when a toast should persist or timeout](#when-to-persist-or-timeout).
```

### When to use

- To display contextual information resulting from a user’s action.
- To communicate a background process that has either started or ended, e.g., “Creating cluster”.

### When not to use

> - To display contextual associative errors (e.g. form validation), or promotional content, consider [Alert](/components/alert).

Reviewer 3: How does this differ from "To display contextual information resulting from a user's action." in line 5?

Author: I think we can just remove line 5, as line 10 is far more detailed as to when not to use.

Reviewer 4: Line 5 could be expanded to say its ok to use a toast as a save confirmation (like after someone submits a form)

Author: It may be redundant because line 6 was meant for that. I'll remove 5 :)

- As a dialog to confirm an action, consider [Modal](/components/modal).

## Color

> ![A list different types of toasts, starting from neutral all the way to critical](/assets/components/toast/toast-colors.png)

Reviewer 4: I'd lean towards images... but on the condition that they have good alt text 😆 

Reason being, we had to swap out the real examples for modals/flyouts for images because including the real components caused a11y tests to fail. 

One downside tho is if we ever change the design we have to make new images. 

Side note: I think we can improve the alt text here
```suggestion
![The color argument changes the background and title color: neutral is grey, highlight is purple, success is green, warning is orange, critical is red.](/assets/components/toast/toast-colors.png)
```

- **Highlight**: used interchangeably with `neutral` when more prominence is needed. Use sparingly.
- **Success**: indicate a successful action was completed.
- **Warning**: indicate a successful action was completed but may have triggered a related issue. Provide guidance and actions if possible.
- **Critical**: indicate error or critical issues resulting from a failed action.

### Critical toasts

!!! Do

Use the Toast to provide non-intrusive feedback to users about the failure of an ongoing task or request. For example, a failure while deleting a cluster.

![A toast showing a module error](/assets/components/toast/toast-do-non-intrusive-notification.png)

!!!

!!! Do

Use the Toast to communicate error messages that are not caused by the user. For example, an unsuccessful Vault cluster creation due to a failure while validating the deployment.

![A toast showing a vault cluster update failure](/assets/components/toast/toast-do-system-notifications.png)

!!!

!!! Dont

Don't use toasts for intrusive message communication about errors or critical disruptions at an application, page, or section level. Use the [Alert](/components/alert) instead.

> ![A toast with an intrusive message](/assets/components/toast/toast-dont-intrusive-message.png)

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
![A toast showing the user has exceeded their applies limit.](/assets/components/toast/toast-dont-intrusive-message.png)
```

Just because it is useful to know an example of an intrusive message.

Icons within `neutral` and `highlight` Toasts can be replaced with other icons. Change them only when the new icon provides the user with extra value; otherwise, use the default icon provided.

![Two toasts, one neutral with a non-standard icon and one success with a standard icon.](/assets/components/toast/toast-icon-neutral-and-success.png)

## Size

> Toasts can be sized between 360px and 500px wide. Anything wider than 500px will take up too much of the screen space.

Reviewer: This might be better phrased in a way that says why 500px is too much screen space. Maybe something like:
"Anything wider than 500px is considered disruptive to the user experience and may cover important information on the page" 
or we could tell users to consider using another alert type if their content is too dense?

Author: Thanks for the feedback, ill update with your suggestion and see how it reads!

## Placement

> Toasts should appear in the bottom right corner of the viewport with a margin of 32px from the bottom and 24px from the right side of the viewport. Because of the placement of Toasts, any page-specific feedback to the user should be directly associated with the UI element. 

Author: If an error is contextual to a UI, it should be displayed close to it.

> Toasts should appear in the bottom right corner of the viewport with a margin of 32px from the bottom and 24px from the right side of the viewport. Because of the placement of Toasts, any page-specific feedback to the user should be directly associated with the UI element. 

Reviewer 4: Would this be better?

```suggestion
Toasts should appear in the bottom right corner of the viewport with a margin of 32px from the bottom and 24px from the right side of the viewport. Since Toasts are not within the main page content they should not be used if the message is critical for the user to know or contains feedback directly associated with another UI element.
```

> Toasts should appear in the bottom right corner of the viewport with a margin of 32px from the bottom and 24px from the right side of the viewport. Because of the placement of Toasts, any page-specific feedback to the user should be directly associated with the UI element. 

Reviewer 3: What about something like this so that's more clear:

If a warning or error is contextual to a specific UI feature, such as a form, directly associate an Alert to that feature instead of a Toast.

> ![Toast placement example](/assets/components/toast/toast-placement.png =600x*)

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
![](/assets/components/toast/toast-placement.png =600x*)
```

I think this image because all of the content is in the paragraph above.

### Displaying multiple Toasts

When displaying multiple Toasts, they should stack vertically with a 16px margin between each Toast. For consistency, each stacked Toast should be the same width.

> ![Multiple toast examples stacked](/assets/components/toast/toast-placement-multiple.png =600x*)

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
![](/assets/components/toast/toast-placement-multiple.png =600x*)
```

> ## When to persist or time-out

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
## When to persist or timeout
```

> A Toast can either persist (until dismissed) or automatically dismiss (time-out) after seven seconds. If a Toast contains actions or critical information (often associated with warning or critical toasts, but not limited to), it is recommended to persist until the user dismisses it, otherwise, it should time-out after 7 seconds.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A Toast can either persist (until dismissed) or automatically dismiss (time-out) after seven seconds. If a Toast contains actions or critical information (often associated with warning or critical toasts, but not limited to), it is recommended to persist until the user dismisses it.
```

> A Toast can either persist (until dismissed) or automatically dismiss (time-out) after seven seconds. If a Toast contains actions or critical information (often associated with warning or critical toasts, but not limited to), it is recommended to persist until the user dismisses it, otherwise, it should time-out after 7 seconds.

Reviewer 3: Where did "7 seconds" come from? How was this number determined? Can that be communicated in the documentation so consumers understand it isn't an arbitrary number?

Author: Long version:[Reading comprehension analysis](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Words_per_minute#Reading_and_comprehension) from this wiki that also [cites this book](https://iovs.arvojournals.org/article.aspx?articleid=2166061). Shorter answer, this number is around the industry standard where I see 6/7 seconds in other design systems. Especially with toasts where it triggers where folks may not expect, it gives the user enough time to see it then read it.

I can elaborate more.

> ### Time-out best practices

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
### Timeout best practices
```

> When a Toast is set to time-out, the content within should be no longer than 5 words (e.g. “Cluster created”). It is recommended that the neutral, highlight or success colors be used for time-out experiences, ensuring that the criticality is at a minimum, and that users are not missing important information that requires their immediate attention.

Reviewer 3: I updated this for spelling and [HDS writing best practices](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1WyoJVpWFVgWbCnZ28WW0gRJwJlj-qV5oY0ExhDR2obs/edit?usp=sharing). I also moved the information about "7 seconds" to this section as it's only relevant for Toasts that are not persistent. 

```suggestion
When a Toast is set to timeout, it should timeout after 7 seconds, and the content should be no longer than 5 words, e.g., “Cluster created.” 

We recommend setting a timeout for neutral, highlight, or success Toasts only. This ensures that critical information or information that requires immediate attention is not missed.
```

Reviewer 3: +1, "seven seconds" is what Grammarly suggested. This is just a personal opinion, but it feels easier to scan with the numerals.

> When a Toast is set to time-out, the content within should be no longer than 5 words (e.g. “Cluster created”). It is recommended that the neutral, highlight or success colors be used for time-out experiences, ensuring that the criticality is at a minimum, and that users are not missing important information that requires their immediate attention.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When a Toast is set to time-out, the content within should be no longer than 5 words (e.g. “Cluster created”). It is recommended that only neutral, highlight or success toasts be used in time-out experiences. Critical messages and items that require users' immediate attention should persist until dismissed to ensure users do not miss important information.
```

> When a Toast is set to time-out, the content within should be no longer than 5 words (e.g. “Cluster created”). It is recommended that the neutral, highlight or success colors be used for time-out experiences, ensuring that the criticality is at a minimum, and that users are not missing important information that requires their immediate attention.

Reviewer 3: Where did "5 words" come from? Is this a strict rule? What if they have 6 words and can't omit 1 of the words? Should the number of words or characters change the length of time a Toast is visible?

Author: This was a conversation Lee and I had where she worked on a toast that would extend the timeout duration as more words were placed in the toast. She felt like that approach wasn't good, and personally I'm not keen on doing this because that gives folks a reason to add extended lines of text and a toast isn't a place for that.

But I get what you mean, ill massage this a bit to be a little more flexible in the wording and give consumers more grace.

Icons within `neutral` and `highlight` Toasts can be replaced with other icons. Change them only when the new icon provides the user with extra value; otherwise, use the default icon provided.

![Two toasts, one neutral with a non-standard icon and one success with a standard icon.](/assets/components/toast/toast-icon-neutral-and-success.png)

## Size

Toasts can be sized between 360px and 500px wide. Anything wider than 500px is considered disruptive to the user experience and may cover important information on the page.

## Placement

> Toasts appear in the bottom right corner of the viewport with a margin of 32px from the bottom and 24px from the right side of the viewport. If a warning or error is contextual to a specific UI feature, such as a form, directly associate an Alert to that feature instead of a Toast.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Toasts appear in the bottom right corner of the viewport with a margin of 32px from the bottom and 24px from the right side of the viewport. If a warning or error is contextual to a specific UI feature, such as a form, directly associate an Alert to that feature instead of using a Toast.
```

![](/assets/components/toast/toast-placement.png =600x*)

> ### Displaying multiple Toasts

Reviewer: Do we have any guidance on how many Toasts are allowed on a page or should we note that more than 2-3 Toasts isn't an ideal user experience?

Author: I think we don't necessarily have guidance for that because theoretically they can keep climbing. @jorytindall you have thoughts on this?

Reviewer 5: No we don't have any guidance on the specific number of toasts. For example, I think based on how cloud-ui has the display of the Toast configured, they'll just continue to render as a stack and eventually extend past the top of the viewport. Maybe something for us to think about, but I also might note that this is a product-specific problem. Maybe it would be useful to include something _very_ general, but I don't think we generally run into this very frequently unless there's some sort of error (at which point it's unintentional to show many toasts) like something being triggered on a loop and showing notifications constantly.

Just a couple of thoughts

When displaying multiple Toasts, they should stack vertically with a 16px margin between each Toast. For consistency, each stacked Toast should be the same width.

![](/assets/components/toast/toast-placement-multiple.png =600x*)

## When to persist or timeout

A Toast can either persist until the user dismisses it or be automatically dismissed via a timeout. 

> If a Toast contains actions or critical information (often associated with a warning or critical toast), we recommend that it persist until the user dismisses it. Keep in mind that when a Toast persists, it will remain visible across pages until dismissed.

Reviewer: Do we typically avoid saying "we"? Maybe this should be 
```suggestion
If a Toast contains actions or critical information (often associated with a warning or critical toast), it should persist until the user dismisses it. Keep in mind that when a Toast persists, it will remain visible across all pages until dismissed.
```

Reviewer 3: [We do not](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1WyoJVpWFVgWbCnZ28WW0gRJwJlj-qV5oY0ExhDR2obs/edit#heading=h.p3yb1ajhzcep). We also often lean into our principle of "[guidance over control](https://helios.hashicorp.design/about/principles)" which is why you'll see us use "recommend" a lot. 

That said, this should probably be more prescriptive since it's a major usability concern. I also like that your version is more concise and flows more naturally.

![Showing a critical Toast with a cluster failure message with a button that says retry and a link that says view cluster](/assets/components/toast/toast-persist-critical-retry.png)

### Timeout best practices

> When a Toast is set to timeout, it should timeout after seven seconds, and the content should be no longer than a few of words, e.g., “Cluster created.” This is because when a Toast appears, there must be enough time for a user to notice it, then read it in time before it auto dismisses. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When a Toast is set to timeout, it should timeout after seven seconds, and the content should be no longer than a few words, e.g., “Cluster created.” This is because when a Toast appears, there must be enough time for a user to notice it, then read it in time before it auto dismisses. 
```

> When a Toast is set to timeout, it should timeout after seven seconds, and the content should be no longer than a few of words, e.g., “Cluster created.” This is because when a Toast appears, there must be enough time for a user to notice it, then read it in time before it auto dismisses. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When a Toast is set to timeout, it should auto dismiss after seven seconds. Content within Toasts that time out should be as concise as possible with only a few words, e.g., “Cluster created,” to allow enough time for a user to notice and read the contents before it auto dismisses. 
```
